OVERVIEW

xvista installation is performed by a master configure script and Makefile. 
The configure script automatically detects your machine type and sets various 
appropriate variables. It then autmoatically generates a set of Makefiles
and also a master include file which is used by the individual source files.

HOW TO COMPILE XVISTA

The use of the configure script and the compilation are automatically performed
by the distributed master Makefile. To compile the program, all you should
need to do is go to the top level distribution directory (xvista/) and type:

      make

This will automatically run the configure script, and then automatically
execute the Makefiles. Note that this deviates from previous versions in
that the make is executed from the top level directory, not xvista/source.

EXECUTABLE NAME AND XVISTA ON MULTIPLE PLATFORMS

xvista is designed so that one distribution tree can include executables
for multiple platforms without requiring multiple copies of the source code.
As a result, the machine type is incorporated into the executable file name.
The executables are kept in the xvista/bin directory, and will have names

     program.machinetype

At this time, three different machine types are supported:

       linux      :  linux systems, so far only RedHat distribution
       solaris    :  Sun's Solaris operating system
       osf1axp    :  for DEC Alpha processors running either OSF1AXP or 
                     DIGITAL UNIX

When the compilation is completed, the xvista/bin directory should have the
files:

      xvista.machinetype
      dosystem.machinetype
      lynx.machinetype

The lynx executable will be a link to your system's lynx executable if it
was found, or a freshly compiled executable if not.

Once compilation is completed, you could run the make on a different platform
from the SAME (xvista/) directory and get executables for other platforms in 
the xvista/bin directory. This works because EVERY time make is invoked, the
configure script is rerun and Makefiles generated. It is possible to avoid
running the configuration script for a remake ON THE SAME MACHINE TYPE by
recompiling using the command, make xvista, in the xvista/source directory. 

LINKING TO THE EXECUTABLE

After compilation, you can (and probably should) make a link to the
xvista.machinetype executable from a normally searched executable directory,
e.g.,

    ln /wherever/xvista/bin/xvista.machinetype  /usr/local/bin/xvista

You do NOT need to provide links for the dosystem and lynx executables; the
program will know how to find them in the xvista/bin directory with the
appropriate machinetype extension.

LICKMONGO EXECUTABLE

It is also possible to create a standalone LickMongo executable from the
distribution, since all of the relevant source code is included. To do
so, cd to the directory xvista/lickmongo/source, and issue a make
command (after you have compiled xvista). This will create an executable
    xvista/bin/lmongo.machinetype


